Math 348, Spring 2022

Prof. James Skon

Nafeez Ishmam Ahmed, Meheret Ourgessa, Christopher Lee

Feb. 09, 2022


Art Perceptions: Project Proposal


Information about the Organization and Stakeholders:

This product is being developed for the Gund Gallery to be used by visitors and potentially members of the Gund Gallery faculty as well. The Gund Gallery is Kenyon College’s official art gallery and museum, but is also described as an institute that “functions as a genre-bending, multidisciplinary, no-holds-barred cultural hub, focusing on the visual arts but also offering films, readings, lectures and musical performances.” 

The Gund Gallery seems to be interested in a product that can gauge whether in-person visitors’ experience of art pieces hosted by the gallery is different from online visitors’ experience of the same pieces of art. In addition, our client may be interested in gauging and comparing visitors’ reactions to computer-generated art versus human-generated art. Though the requirements need ironing out, we believe a survey system that can gauge users’ interaction with different types of art (that could be experienced differently) is of value to the gallery.

We held a meeting with Jodi Kovach on February 8th, 2022 to discuss plans for the project. Details included what type of questions and data the Gallery would like to receive from the survey to gauge users’ reaction. More specifically, we believe it would be helpful to receive data through a scale system rather than through binary questions. However, this meeting did not lead to a conclusive decision for whether the client would like to explore visitors’ reactions to computer-generated vs. human-generated art or experiencing art in-person versus online. We (the client and us) would like to expand on this project more and have not made any concrete decisions on where we want to go with it other than having it be a sort of survey website that can produce visualizations of responses collected.


Overview of the Project and Functionalities/Attributes:

At the moment, the project is being envisioned as a method to survey visitors' reactions to experiencing art in-person versus experiencing art online and analyzing the results generated. In addition, we also want to include a functionality that allows for a comparison between visitors’ reactions to computer-generated and human-generated art. And for both of these general reaction comparisons, we believe demographically breaking down these data during analysis could produce interesting trends.

The main goal of this project would be to collect and analyze data, and visualize results from surveys in a user-friendly manner. Visualization could be for both stakeholders (Gund Gallery faculty) and survey takers. Data being stored and processed includes user responses to a list of questions that gauge reaction to art and databases for art pieces to be used. Databases to be used have not been defined yet, but these databases will likely include art pieces from Gund Gallery and beyond. We also want to propose a collaboration between us and the Art creation team (from MATH 348) to source art that can be generated by an AI on the spot from them. However, the feasibility for such a collaboration has yet to be gauged. 

Overall, we believe that this project may be able to reveal interesting trends about our reactions to digitally-generated art and how viewing human-generated art behind screens influences our experience of the art. As of yet, the project definitions are pretty loose and require more work to fix, but we believe we can convert this project into an interesting method to measure and compare people’s reaction to art of different types (experienced in different ways).


